i'm not used to paying money for books
at all
i'm used to paying money for video games
looking at video games for sale on a
store shelf
when i was a child asking my parents to
buy me video games for pretty much
every single birthday and christmas
the economy of video games
is something i'm much more familiar with
than owning books
once we're looking at thousands of
dollars
and with current generation systems
we are talking about thousands of
dollars
then we're also talking about really
meaningful really significant
opportunity costs 39.74
canadian dollars this book
cost me almost forty dollars
and i resent the hell out of it
i feel like i'm gonna present buying
this book
until the day that i die and it's you
know it's only forty dollars
it's only forty dollars but it's strange
how
different types of cost
weigh on us differently right
i you know forty dollars spent on
groceries
i wouldn't feel the same way about you
know the thing is
we had a translation of this book that
we downloaded for free
printed it out as a pdf i mean it's not
really free because you had to pay for
the ink and the printer
there's some there's some cost there's a
translation for about 100 years ago
and it's better it's better than this
book i read articles
by the author before i decided to buy
this book and i
even emailed the author and had a bunch
of messages
back and forth with the guy so you feel
you have a connection to the author of
the book
and you feel you can trust him and you
think buying this book is gonna be
a happy memory
[Music]
and you know for me personally part of
the reason why
i resent this book is i'm not used to
paying money for books
at all i'm used to paying money
for video games looking at video games
for sale on a store shelf when i was a
child
asking my parents to buy me video games
for pretty much
every single birthday and christmas
celebration
i mean there was a pretty short period
of my life
when i was really buying video games my
own money because for me video games
were
primarily if not exclusively a childhood
phenomenon
but nevertheless the economy
of video games is something i'm much
more familiar with
than owning books now that's partly
because
if you don't know me it's the first time
the channel i used to live in cambodia
i used to live in thailand i used to
live in laos and even when i was in more
comfortable places like moving between
hong kong and taiwan
the fact that you're always moving means
that you're never going to be
building up a bookshelf full of heavy
objects
i didn't i didn't uh build up a
collection of video games either but
video games are a lot more portable than
the books are
there was no way i could own and carry
with me books
you know from one place to another and
you know
i think one of the main reasons on this
channel i've only
criticized video games in terms of the
waste of time
and not the waste of money is that
it's still it still seems to me in my
mind's eye
like books way more of a waste of money
than video games
even though obviously books bring so
much positive in my life
but man forty dollars for a book even
even some books that cost you
cost you twenty dollars can you
can you justify that i mean unless you
have some sense of pride
in collecting these things and having
them sit on a shelf
for you to look at them later and for me
in my life i never had that
i never had the stability in my life to
really own books the first year
of me really buying and owning books was
in the conditions of the pandemic and
let's not forget 2020 all the libraries
were closed
before that i had access to university
library and even as a kid
public libraries i had the option i had
the luxury
of getting books for free this is
stunning to me i made this chart myself
the numbers were available from ign
this chart shows that if you had bought
a
brand new nintendo entertainment system
in 1985 you were paying almost
500 us dollars in today's money
so adjusting for inflation
the nintendo entertainment system cost
you five hundred dollars
wow it really is a lot of money and a
lot of us may be insensitive to how much
money
it was because it might have been our
parents who paid for these things and we
never thought
our parents spent five hundred dollars
to provide us with
a nintendo console like if you're my
generation i had
sega master system um or
a playstation 2 or a playstation
depending on what generation of video
games you grew up with now
let's really be honest what
is the minimum cost of
owning and using one of these consoles
because it's not the sticker price
on the front of that box i would say
conservatively
you could take any of these numbers and
double them for a minimum price
why you got to own a tv set
you have to own more than one controller
if you're fussy
you might end up with four or five
controllers i don't know i don't know
anyone who owns a console
with just one controller even if you
play alone you have different types of
controllers
different types of games you want an
arcade stick you want whatever
you know people get fussy but if you got
brothers and sisters or friends or
boyfriends or girlfriends but you can
spend a lot
just on the interface on controllers
people paid
upgrade and expand the hard drive to
expand
the capacity of the console itself right
and if you think it's
unreasonable to include the cost of the
screen
what are you going to include in the
cost of your reading habit i just i just
bought one of these
this is uh this is a wooden wooden book
rack
uh book stand help you read a little bit
more
efficiently i can include that in the
cost of my reading you can include the
bookshelf
and then above all else you have to have
some kind of estimate
for the cost of the games nobody is
going to buy a console
and then only play the built-in games
now
video games are still part of my life i
think they will
always be a part of my life partly
because
i have a daughter it's possible i will
have another kid or more kids
in the future this is never going to go
away when i see this
price tag when i see that super mario
3d world is 79
canadian dollars all right i'm shocked
i'm horrified and i'll tell you my own
biasness i don't feel
video games have made progress i don't
feel that
super mario 3d world today is
a better game than what came out 10
years ago or that it provides
more wholesome or more educational
entertainment for kids
that there's more value than in a mario
game that came out
10 years ago now i admit if you're going
to talk about
20 years ago we get into a more
difficult nuanced discussion for me
personally
video games made before 1997 are more
valuable than video games made today
because i don't want to spend three
hours
playing a video game i would only be
interested in a game that you can play
for five minutes or 15 minutes but
that's
that's my personal bias but to be on the
leading edge
of technology to spend 500 on a console
and then maybe 80 dollars per game
plus the controllers plus the screen
this is already a lot of money
and look guys can we be honest with
ourselves
about how many games in total you are
gonna buy
over say a five year period this
fine specimen of the human species
youtuber known as metal jesus rocks
owns 233
nintendo switch games complete in box
so this does not mean that he doesn't
own other games that are
cheaper and available as digital
download only so on current generation
consoles
there are some games where just like
buying something for your
apple macintosh or your windows computer
you just pay a relatively small price to
download onto your hard drive that could
be
9.99 could be 20 could be 5
he owns those cheaper games also
but he has a collection of 233 games
complete inbox if we were to estimate
that he
spent 50 us dollars per game
that gives us a total of eleven thousand
six hundred and fifty dollars
i am not suggesting to you that anyone
in my audience today
is considering getting a 20
000 a year video game habit
i don't think that's a warning i need to
sound
but we really are talking about enough
money
that there were serious opportunity
costs
in life opportunity cost means
the cost of the things you decided
not to do right so there's the cost of
the thing you bought
and then there's the cost of the lost
opportunity
for what you didn't buy what you didn't
do with that time
with that money and so on and that's why
books are so hard to evaluate
right i mean what is what is it worth to
me
the number of hours i'm going to spend
reading this book and the number of
dollars i'm going to spend reading this
book
i don't want to be the person in a
parallel universe
who didn't read any books any of these
books right
you can't say any books at all i don't
want to be the person
who didn't have the frankly
soul-crushing disappointing experience
of finding this book and then regretting
it
you know even though that's bad i want
to be that guy i want to be the guy that
takes that chance and makes that effort
and tries to read the book and tries to
improve himself
and even if i fail or end up frustrated
that's what i want to be
right this part of a self-development
process there of training yourself
to be the kind of person you want to
come even if even if all these books end
up
in the garbage because i've had to move
house before suddenly i got to move
across the country
across the continent to the other side
of the world it's possible again i'm
going to lose most of these books
all these books it's really possible i'm
not going to have one bookshelf in one
place where i get to
accumulate these things right but it's
hard for me to speak in terms of
opportunity costs because if i didn't
buy that book and if i didn't spend the
time
reading that book right who
would i be once we're looking at
thousands of dollars and with current
generation
systems we are talking
about thousands of dollars then we're
also talking about
really meaningful really significant
opportunity costs
you can take a vacation to france
and learn nothing i'm not
endorsing taking a vacation just for the
sake
of that vacation i'll tell you something
in the south of france
there is a museum to the history
of the french revolution you could learn
a lot
and you could make a kind of meaningful
connection
to that political history that guides
you in the books you read
and the other things you learn and what
you do politically what you do in your
own life
politically for the next 10 years for
the rest of your life
you could take away something really
meaningful and political history
and tourism they don't just intersect
in the ancient past you could go to
france
today because you're interested in the
chilejone
protest movement the pro-democracy
protest movement
that's ongoing in france right now you
could say you know what i feel this
isn't
really being covered by the english
language press i don't really feel i can
learn about this on youtube or tv
or by reading books in english which is
true you could go
and you could meet those people you
could attend some of the products you
could interview those people
you could bring your cell phone camera
and you could record the interviews
you could write a book of your own you
could make a youtube video of your you
could make a documentary film
of your own right but even if you did
none of that
you could just go there to learn
something meaningful
have something have some kind of contact
with political history as it unfolds
in your own generation and then decades
later be able to look back and say yeah
i was there
i was there when that happened you know
you know in this sense a one thousand
dollar
vacation there could be a lot of value
there
there could be something you carry with
you
for the rest of your life in a really
meaningful way
my sling is editorial explicit material
briefcase show lava stereo flow fill me